docs: [CDH-6179] Streaming Lake Ingestion priv prev - BI views feature (#4325)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/datahub/streaming-lake-ingestion-bundle/views.md

---
weight: 30
title: Using views for BI tools
layout: redirect
---

> Streaming Lake Ingestion offers [Apache Iceberg views](https://iceberg.apache.org/view-spec/) on top of the data ingested into the data lake tables, especially for better integration with BI tools.

Reviewer: There is a placeholder for the "flat views" in the documentation already: https://cumulocity-iot-c8y-docs-build-pr-4325.surge.sh/datahub/streaming-lake-ingestion/#flat-views I think it makes sense to put it along with the rest of the description of the schema that is created.

### Integration with BI tools {#integration-with-bi-tools}

> As BI tools tend to work unwell with structured columns, the views offered by Streaming Lake Ingestion solve this problem by flattening structured fields into "flat" columns. This makes it possible to read nested columns (e.g. `value` and `unit` of a measurement series) as top level primitive fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As BI tools tend to work unwell with structured columns, the views offered by Streaming Lake Ingestion solve this problem by flattening structured fields into "flat" columns. This makes it possible to read nested columns (for example, `value` and `unit` of a measurement series) as top-level primitive fields.
```

Take the following example:
You ingest the following measurement into {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

```json
{
  "time": "2026-02-19T13:09:39.678Z",
  "source": { "id": "47635" },
  "type": "c8y_BatteryMeasurement",
  "c8y_Battery": {
    "voltage": { "value": 12.8, "unit": "V" },
    "stateOfCharge": { "value": 85.5, "unit": "%" },
    "temperature": { "value": 22.5, "unit": "C" }
  }
}
```

> This will result in a table like following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This results in a table like the following:
```

**Table: measurement.c8y_Battery**
| eventType          | source | time                     | type                   | voltage       | stateOfCharge | temperature   |
| ------------------ | ------ | ------------------------ | ---------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
|                    |        |                          |                        | value \| unit | value \| unit | value \| unit |
| MEASUREMENT_CREATE | 47635  | 2026-02-19T13:09:39.678Z | c8y_BatteryMeasurement | 12.8 \| V     | 85.5 \| %     | 22.5 \| C     |

Note that there are three columns which are of structured type: `voltage`, `stageOfCharge` and `temperature`. As many BI tools can't handle structured types, Streaming Lake Ingestion offers views for tables to "unnest" these structured fields.

> An according view looks like following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An according view looks like the following:
```

**View: measurement.c8y_Battery**
| eventType          | source | time                     | type                   | voltage\\value  | voltage\\unit | ... | temperature\\value | temperature\\unit |
| ------------------ | ------ | ------------------------ | ---------------------- | --------------- | ------------- | --- | ------------------ | ----------------- |
| MEASUREMENT_CREATE | 47635  | 2026-02-19T13:09:39.678Z | c8y_BatteryMeasurement | 12.8            | V             | ... | 22.5               | C                 |

> This makes it possible to operate directly on nested fields and e.g. do analytics for measurement values in BI tools.

Reviewer: Can you add a comment that it's for the CDC only currently? 

Were there any limitations that are worth mentioning here? (Maybe the fact that arrays can't be flattened?)

> This makes it possible to operate directly on nested fields and e.g. do analytics for measurement values in BI tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This makes it possible to operate directly on nested fields and, for example, do analytics for measurement values in BI tools.
```

> ### View representations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### View representations {#view-representations}
```
